
  0. General
  	Q: What is Netsukuku?
	Q: What are its features?
	Q: Why did you choose that name?
	Q: Why another p2p network?
	Q: Is this a serious project? I find too naive: are you
	   totally sure it will work?
	Q: Where are current Netsukuku networks that 
	   I can connect to?
	Q: What can I do to help the development of Netsukuku?
	   How can I contribute to its growth?

  1. Technical
	Q: Does it scale in a network with A LOT of nodes?
	Q: What is the performance of the network? 
	   Why should it work? Do you have any proof?
	Q: What if all the traffic flows through a single node? 
	Q: Netsukuku is separated from Internet. How?
	Q: What about the security of my packets? Everyone will be 
	   able to sniff them!
	Q: How can I join in Netsukuku?
	Q: How does a new node begin to locate any of the other 
	   nodes in the network?
	Q: Will you provide "Internet to Netsukuku" tunnels?
	Q: Aside from what I hack myself I was wondering what can be
	   done on the Netsukuku network?
	Q: Will we be able to host websites anytime soon?
	Q: Will glibc be able to resolve names for the ANDNA system?
	Q: Is it any good for voice chat, video chat, games?

  2. Software 
	Q: On what OS does it run?
	Q: Will Netsukuku be ported to Windows?
	Q: Will Netsukuku be ported to handled devices?
	Q: Do I need an access point to use a wifi link?
	Q: Why the code is not written in java?

--


/		 \
   0. General
\		 /

Q: What is Netsukuku?
A: Netsukuku is a mesh network or a p2p net system that generates and sustains
   itself autonomously. It is designed to handle an unlimited number of nodes
   with minimal CPU and memory resources. Thanks to this feature it can be
   easily used to build a worldwide distributed, anonymous and anarchical
   network, separated from the Internet, without the support of any servers,
   ISPs or control authorities.
   This net is composed by computers linked physically each other, therefore it
   isn't build upon any existing network. Netsukuku builds only the routes which
   connects all the computers of the net.
   In other words, Netsukuku replaces the level 3 of the model iso/osi with
   another routing protocol.
   The Domain Name System is also replaced by a decentralised and distributed
   system: the ANDNA (A Netsukuku Domain Name Architecture).

   For more information read the main document:
   http://netsukuku.freaknet.org/doc/main_doc/netsukuku

Q: What are its features?
A: The complete list of features is here:
   http://netsukuku.freaknet.org/files/doc/misc/Ntk_features_list

Q: Why did you choose that name?
A: Networked Electronic Technician Skilled in Ultimate Killing, Utility and 
   Kamikaze Uplinking.
   But there is also another story: we were learning Japanese katakana with
   `slimeforest', a nice game for GNU/Linux.
   Unfortunately when we encountered the "Network" word, written in Japanese,
   we didn't know all the relative symbols, so the only katakana we were able
   to read were few and mixed with others the name was: Ne tsu ku ku.
   By the way, you can always think of any other deceitful and hidden
   meanings.

Q: Why another p2p network?
A: Netsukuku is not a p2p net built upon the Internet. It is a physical
   network and it is a dynamic routing system designed to handle 2^128 nodes
   without any servers or central systems, in this way, it is possible to
   build a physical network separated from the Internet. Btw, read "What is
   Netsukuku".

Q: Is this a serious project? I find too naive: are you totally sure
   it will work?
A: It's a problem implicit in every project: if you don't have a mathematical
   proof, you can't be totally sure about the results.

   The same apply in reverse: how can you be so sure that it won't approximately
   work as expected?  Have you read, in depth, the documentation? Do
   you have a valid proof of your claims?
   
   Instead, in the Netsukuku site every claim is supported by a complete
   reasoning.  You can find detailed explanation of the protocols, the
   way of working of the algorithms and how and why they have been chosen.
   And if the doc isn't enough, you can always communicate with the developers 
   (mailinglist).
   
   In short: the Netsukuku community has developed reasonably
   algorithms that have the possibility to be reviewed, expanded and
   work efficiently.
   
   What shouldn't be considered "serious" is the habit of disregarding with
   superficiality well developed arguments.
   
   As a side note, there isn't any written rules in the Ntk site that
   forbids contributor to develop new algorithms.

   If you want to help in the development,
   read the docs, code and contact us ;)

Q: Where are current Netsukuku networks that I can connect to?
A: Simply we don't know and we can't, but the website team si developing a
   community portal which will ease the difficulty of coordination. (Think of
   Google maps).

Q: What can I do to help the development of Netsukuku? How can I contribute to
   its growth?
A: http://lab.dyne.org/Ntk_Grow_Netsukuku


/		 \
   1. Technical
\		 /

Q: Does it scale in a network with A LOT of nodes?
A: Simple and not accurate reasons for the scalability of Netsukuku:
   1) the size of the maps is fixed
   2) Not all the nodes sends a broadcast discovery.
   3) There are few floods for each discovery.
   4) When a node receives a flood it already has the routes without
      calculating anything.


Q: What is the performance of the network? Why should it work?
   Do you have any proof?

A: Until now, no rigorous proof of the performance of the Netsukuku topology and
   routing system is available. You are invited to try finding one, or wait the
   Netsukuku developers.
   
   If you want to evaluate the Netsukuku protocol performance, you should
   take into account the following factors (in order of priority):

      - Topology (how the logic structure of the network is organised)
      - Dynamics of the topology: what happens when a node changes its
        status (see "7 Hooking phase")
      - IP distribution (see "7.1 Uniform gnodes"): how the IP addresses are
        allocated, trying to avoid waste of space.
      - Routing in high levels (see "6 Flat levels"): how the QSPN is used
        in the high level of the hierarchy.
      - "7.2 Internal connection": what happens when the network is split in
        two separated nets.
      - ETP: valuate its performance, etc...
   
   The real difficulty doesn't concern the particular routing algorithm used, 
   but lies in the Network structure and organisation. For example, instead of the 
   QSPN you can try to use a normal routing discovery method: it will always work
   inside a group of nodes (256).
   Then you have to take into account the higher levels of the hierarchy,
   i.e. group of group of nodes, but here you can still try to use your
   favorite routing scheme. 
   The QSPN has been designed to be well integrated in the ntk
   topology (see "6 Flat levels"), f.e. it uses the "interesting
   information rule".

   You can find the appropriate documentation here:
   http://netsukuku.freaknet.org/index.php?pag=documentation&dir=main_documentation

Q: What if all the traffic flows through a single node? 
A: See the Caustic Routing:
   http://lab.dyne.org/Ntk_caustic_routing
   (it is work in progress).

Q: Netsukuku is separated from Internet. How?
   Someone is building all new infrastructure? Who's paying for that?
A: Not at all, there is no need to pay. The best way to physical link two
   nodes is using the wifi. Nowadays, there are a lot of cool wifi
   technologies, which allows to link two nodes distant kilometres each other.
   In the city there would be no problems, it suffices only a node for
   each neighbourhood and the city will be completely covered.

Q: How can I join in Netsukuku?
A: Take out your wifi antenna, and start the Netsukuku daemon on the relative
   network interface, then wait and tell to do the same thing to all your
   friends.

Q: What about the security of my packets? Everyone will be able to sniff them!
A: The situation in Ntk isn't much different from the current Internet:
	
    - in the Internet, only those few who have access to the ISPs, the
      routers and the backbones can sniff, alter and destroy your
      traffic.
    
    - in Netsukuku, only the nodes belonging to the temporary route, which
      you are using for your connection, will be able to sniff, alter
      and destroy your traffic. However  consider that:
    	
        1) with the use of multipath your traffic is split among
           different routes, thus each route will be able to read only
           a partial part of your traffic.
        
        2) for each connection you have a potential different route

   The solution to avoid these problems are alike: use secure protocols https,
   SSH, SSL, and so on.

   Moreover in Netsukuku, there will be a complete cryptographic layer, see
   http://lab.dyne.org/Ntk_carciofo

Q: How does a new node begin to locate any of the other nodes in the
   network?
A: The Netsukuku radar sends echo packets about every 10 seconds, if someone
   replies it communicates with it.

Q: Will you provide "Internet to Netsukuku" tunnels?
A: Yes, Viphilama will provide an automatic tunnelling system:
   http://lab.dyne.org/Ntk_viphilama

Q: Aside from what I hack myself I was wondering what can be done on the
   Netsukuku network?
A: Whatever you already do in the current Internet. What the Netsukuku daemon
   does is to only set the routes in the kernel routing table.

Q: Will we be able to host websites anytime soon?
A: You can do it by now!

Q: Will glibc be able to resolve names for the ANDNA system?
A: ANDNA comes with a DNS wrapper so it is transparent to all the programs
   which uses the glibc. Read "man andna":
   http://netsukuku.freaknet.org/doc/manuals/andna

Q: What sort of performance does Netsukuku have? Is it any good for voice chat
   video chat?
A: What do you mean by `performance'? 

   Network performance: it is dependent on the links quality. If the nodes are
   linked by 100Mbps cable you will feel like in a large LAN. 
   The distance from yourself and the destination node is also relevant.
   Remember that the Netsukuku daemon chooses only the best way to reach
   the other nodes, but cannot improve the roads themselves.
   
   Software performance: you really shouldn't worry about this:
   PID   USER  PRI  NI  SIZE  RSS  SHARE %CPU %MEM TIME CPU COMMAND
   18521 root  15   0   17708 1552 1164  0.0  0.3  0:00 0   ntkd
   

/		 \
   2. Software
\		 /

Q: On what OS does it run?
A: For now it runs only on GNU/Linux, but it is easy to port it on other OS.
   If you want to join in the development let us now ;)

Q: Will Netsukuku be ported to Windows?
A: Short answer: if you code the port, yes.
   Answer: We need coders for that. There are a lot of things to be done and
   the Windows port is what we care less.

Q: Will Netsukuku be ported to handled devices?
A: We are currently working on flashing Netsukuku on Access Points (like
   Linksys). See http://netsukuku.freaknet.org/openwrt/

Q: Do I need an access point to use a wifi link?
A: You just need a wifi network card. Put it in ad-hoc mode using "netsukuku"
   as essid. ( man netsukuku_wifi:
   http://netsukuku.freaknet.org/doc/manuals/ntk-wifi )

Q: Why the code is not written in java?
A: Are you kidding?


--

Q: My question is not answered here!
A: Contact us: http://netsukuku.freaknet.org
