
Q: What is Netsukuku?
A: Netsukuku is a mesh network or a P2P net system that generates and sustains
   itself autonomously. It is designed to handle an unlimited number of nodes with
   minimal CPU and memory resources. Thanks to this feature it can be easily
   used to build a worldwide distributed, anonymous and anarchical network,
   separated from the Internet, without the support of any servers, ISPs or
   authority controls.
   Keep in mind that it is a _physical network_, it isn't built upon any other
   existing net, therefore there must be computers linked _physically_ each
   other, then Netsukuku will build the routes.
   In other words Netsukuku replaces the level 3 of the model iso/osi with
   another routing protocol.
   For more information read the section "2.4  So, WTF is it?" of the
   document.

Q: Why did you choose that name?
A: Networked Electronic Technician Skilled in Ultimate Killing, Utility and 
   Kamikaze Uplinking.
   But there is also another story: we were learning Japanese katakana with
   slimeforest, a nice game for GNU/Linux.
   Unfortunately when we encountered the "Network" word, written in Japanese,
   we didn't know all the relative symbols, so the only katakana we were able
   to read were few and mixed with others the name was: Ne tsu ku ku.
   By the way, you can always think of any deceitful and hidden meanings.

Q: What does it mean "it uses chaos and fractals"?
A: The Netsukuku protocol (Npv7) structures the entire net as a fractal and,
   in order to calculate all the needed routes which are necessary to connect a
   node to all the other nodes, it makes use of a particular algorithm called
   Quantum Shortest Path Netsukuku (QSPN).
   A fractal is a mathematical structure which can be compressed up to the
   infinite, because inside it, every part itself is composed by the same
   fractal. Thus there is a high compression of a structure which can be
   infinitely expanded. This means that we need just a few Kb to keep the whole
   Netsukuku map. (For the in depth description of the map system in Netsukuku
   read the "5.3  The truly Gnode^n for n<=INFINITE"  section in the document.

   On the other hand, the QSPN is a meta-algorithm in the sense that it
   doesn't follow any predefined mathematical instructions but exploits the
   chance and the chaos, which both don't need any computation. In other words,
   also a simple calculator can work using the QSPN to be connected to
   Netsukuku. (read the "5.1   QSPN: Quantum Shortest Path Netsukuku" section
   in the document).

Q: Does it scale in a network with A LOT of nodes?
A: Simple and not accurate reasons for the scalability of Netsukuku (until there
   is the technical documentation with math background that is being written):
   1) the size of the maps is fixed: about 4Kb for the int_map and 16Kb for
      the ext_map.
   2) Not all the nodes sends a broadcast discovery.
   3) There are few floods for each discovery.
   4) When a node receives a flood it already has the routes without
      calculating anything.
   5) A flood is synchronized: the same flood starts at the same time for all
      the nodes.

Q: Why another p2p network?
A: Netsukuku is not a p2p net built upon the Internet. It is a physical
   network and it is a dynamic routing system designed to handle 2^128 nodes
   without any servers or central systems, in this way, it is possible to
   build a physical network separated from the Internet. Btw, read "What is
   Netsukuku".

Q: On what OS does it run?
A: For now it runs only on GNU/Linux, but it is easy to port it on other OS.
   If you want to join in the development let us now ;)

Q: Does it really works?
A: ^_^

Q: Netsukuku is separated from Internet. How?
   Someone is building all new infrastructure? Who's paying for that?
A: Not at all, there is no need to pay. The best way to physical link two
   nodes is using the wifi. Nowadays, there are a lot of cool wifi
   technologies, which allows to link two nodes distant kilometres each other.
   In the city there would be no problems, it suffices only a node for
   each neighbourhood and the city will be completely covered.

Q: How can I join in Netsukuku?
A: Take out your wifi antenna, and start the Netsukuku daemon on the relative
   network interface, then wait and tell to do the same thing to all your
   friends ^_-

Q: Will you provide "Internet to Netsukuku" tunnels?
A: Maybe yes, but we still don't know.

Q: Aside from what I hack myself I was wondering what can be done on the
   Netsukuku network?
A: Whatever you already do in the actual Internet. What the Netsukuku daemon
   does is to only set the routes in the kernel routing table.

Q: Will we be able to host websites anytime soon?
A: You can do it by now!

Q: Will glibc be able to resolve names for the ANDNA system?
A: ANDNA comes with a DNS wrapper so it is trasparent to all the programs
   which uses the glibc. The only thing you have to do is set "127.0.0.1" in
   the list of your DNS servers (/etc/resolv.conf)
   Btw, read "man andna"

Q: And how does a new node begin to locate any of the other nodes in the
   network?
A: The Netsukuku radar sends echo packets about every 10 seconds, if someone
   replies it communicates with it.

Q: How does it join the network?
A: It does it by itself. Read the "5.2  Npv7_HT Hook & Unhook" section in the
   document or take a look at hook.c in the code ;)

Q: For using a wifi link do I need of an acces point? What to do?
A: You just need a wifi network card. Put it in ad-hoc mode using "netsukuku"
   as essid. ( man netsukuku_wifi )

Q: Why the code is not written in java?
A: Are you kidding?

Q: Ehi! You're crazy. This shit will not work!
A: Ehi pal, this doesn't pretend to be _now_ the final solution to the meaning
   of life, the universe and everything. Why don't you contribute and give us
   useful hints from your great knowledge? If you want to help in the
   development, read the code and contact us ;)

Q: My question is not answered here!
A: Contact us: http://netsukuku.freaknet.org
