== Netsukuku and the civic networks ==

{{{
Cities and Institutions are showing a growing interest in e-government
projects that are targetted in providing on line services to the citizens
through Internet.

For example, the following are candidates for such projects:

	- School related activities (enrolments, cultural and educational programs)
	- News, local radio and televisions.
	- Guides for expositions and events, cultural and tourist information.
	- Discussion forums, social and cultural activities.

However, the diffusion and access to the net isn't still disposable for
everyone: DSL facilities aren't available in many cities and the ISP's tend
to impose expensive rates/costs to grant connectivity.

The creation of civic nets, where users can have free access to web sites
and to online services, surfing web sites devoted to institutional, educational,
tourist, commercial and social activities freely and without any cost is now
possible by Netsukuku.

Netsukuku's first aim is the implementation of a global mesh network, completely
independent from the Internet, where single PC's, communicating each other
through radio frequencies, will become automatically the nodes/access points of
the net and in such way give their contribution to keep it alive and, at the same
time, expand it.

The Netsukuku routing system allows:

- Every user to go not only through the Net of their city but also through
  those located in all the other cities which, once they are interconnected,
  create a special kind of global Network, parallel to Internet, that will
  indefinitely keep in expansion, completely without the support of any ISP's.

- A maximum of 256 hostnames to be recorded and supported by each PC
  (i.e. node of the Net).

On the Netsukuku network, everybody wishing to offer digital contents/information,
will be able to share them simply from his PC. The more participants that are
part of the network, the more they can be granted with circulation of different
ideas and dialogues, democratic processes and the full right of citizenship inside
the information society.

Last but not least, inside the Netsukuku network, users will have the chance to get
through the Internet by sharing their Internet connectivity within the Netsukuku
network. The other users will gain Internet access, but they will be even able
to exploit the available bandwidth, like a single, large Internet connection.

=== How to realize a wireless Netsukuku Net ===

Netsukuku can be used to create an autonomously efficient wireless mesh network
among all the nodes equipped with radio connection devices.

The simplest way to create/join the Netsukuku Net is to install a
common WiFi card inside your own PC and launch the Netsukuku daemon, you don't
need to mess with IP segmentation, subnets, routing, and all the hassle you
usually fight with when using traditional networking.

The flux of data will reach the wished destination, going through the same
nodes, interconnected among them. Obviously, a larger diffusion of the Netsukuku
dedicated network can be achieved by the WiFi coverage of wide urban and rural
areas: there are many and different solutions of wireless devices, all valid and
cheap in the market (routers, access points, omni/directional antennas).

For more information or any request of assistance Netsukuku community is
available on the Internet at the following site:

    http://netsukuku.freaknet.org
